Update tfe architecture (#1726)
hashicorp/terraform-website: content/source/docs/enterprise/system-overview/architecture.html.md

> 

Reviewer: Could you add a metadata description to the top of this page? 

description: |- 
  Learn about the functional layers of the architecture, how they interact, and details about the corresponding Docker containers.

# Terraform Enterprise Architecture

Terraform Enterprise is powered by the same set of services behind HashiCorp’s public SaaS application Terraform Cloud. The sections below present the functional layers of the architecture, how they interact and details pertaining to the corresponding Docker containers involved. References to Docker containers in this document are those you will see when running a `docker ps` on a Terraform Enterprise application server while the application is up.

~> **Advanced:** The content in this document is not required to operate Terraform Enterprise but is provided to help advanced users understand the product in more depth.

> ~> **Note:** Several services described below include the legacy string `ptfe` as part of their names. See [here](https://www.terraform.io/docs/enterprise/index.html#note-about-product-names) for more details.

Reviewer 2: This is not technically a "legacy" string if there hasn't been an deprecation notice about replacing it. As much as I too want it gone.

Author: I'll pull `legacy`

## Application Layer

The application layer is divided conceptually into two areas, each with specific responsibilities:

> - Web Services - Answer requests forwarded by NginX and enqueue jobs for later

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Web Services - Answer requests forwarded by Nginx and enqueue jobs for later
```

- Background Services - Asynchronously process jobs enqueued by web services

Most requests in Terraform Enterprise follow a similar lifecycle as shown in the diagram below.

![tfe-int-app-layer](assets/tfe-int-app-layer.png)

> A web service receives a request and enqueues a background job to perform the task via the Coordination Layer (see below).  The web service then responds immediately to the original request instead of waiting for the job to be finished.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A web service receives a request and enqueues a background job to perform the task via the Coordination Layer (see below). The web service then responds immediately to the original request instead of waiting for the job to be finished.
```

> A web service receives a request and enqueues a background job to perform the task via the Coordination Layer (see below).  The web service then responds immediately to the original request instead of waiting for the job to be finished.

Reviewer: I might make these into numbered steps, since they're a progression and move them above the image.

Finally, the original web service is notified when then task is complete via an internal webhook.

### Web Services

These services answer requests from the UI and API as well as incoming webhooks from a connected VCS.

### Background Services

This is the largest part of the Application Layer and includes multi-purpose Sidekiq workers, Go services that provide key functionality of Terraform Enterprise, and a dynamic fleet of isolated execution environments that perform Terraform runs.

## Coordination Layer

The Coordination Layer is responsible for queuing asynchronous jobs and distributing them to background services running in the Application Layer. Standalone deployments will start a local Redis container for this purpose and Active/Active deployments will use an external Redis service.

![tfe-int-coordination-layer](assets/tfe-int-coordination-layer.png)

~> **Note:** While these components are critical to the overall operation of Terraform Enterprise, operators rarely (if ever) need to look at them directly.

## Storage Layer

> All application data is stored in PostgreSQL and object storage. If you have selected Mounted Disk mode, local services will be started for you, otherwise, the appropriate services will be configured to access a external PostgreSQL, S3-compatible blob storage, and, in active-active, Redis.

Reviewer 3: @amy-hashi What do you think about this suggestion to help clarify this section? I removed the mention of Redis because it is already discussed in the `Coordination Layer` section and the sentence seemed to imply that Redis was also part of the storage layer.

```suggestion
All application data is stored in a PostgreSQL database and an S3-compatible object storage service. If you have selected Mounted Disk mode, local services will be started for you; otherwise, the application must be configured to access an external database and object storage service.
```

Reviewer 2: +1 to this suggestion.

Reviewer 3: @ml4 What do you think?

> ~> **Note:** The configuration information provided and/or generated during installation (e.g. database credentials, hostname, etc.) is stored outside of the application.

Reviewer 2: Not sure what "outside" really means here.

Author: I was separating Replicated from TFE here but I think your call is perspicacious, so I'll pull the comment.

## Key Component Interactions

> This section details how the key containers work together to accomplish common tasks.

Reviewer: Are these the Docker containers? If so maybe we mention that?

> ### Initial Startup - External Services Mode

Reviewer: In all of these sections, I'd move the steps to be above the diagram. I think that will be more cohesive for users (to set them up for what they're observing in the diagram, and then we also won't split sentences that say "the following steps" from the following steps.

![tfe-int-start-external-services](assets/tfe-int-start-external-services.png)

1. The first batch of services starts in parallel.
2. Once `ptfe_nginx` has started, `rabbitmq` starts.

### Initial Startup - Mounted Disk Mode

![tfe-int-start-mounted-disk](assets/tfe-int-start-mounted-disk.png)

1. The first batch of services starts in parallel.
2. Once `ptfe_nginx` has started, `rabbitmq` starts.
3. Once `rabbitmq` has started, `postgres` starts.

### Wait for Dependencies

The application waits for `postgres`, `redis`, and `rabbitmq` to start as above. Once these key services respond successfully to requests, the startup process completes with the following steps.

![tfe-int-wait-for-dependencies](assets/tfe-int-wait-for-dependencies.png)

> 1. The remaining services that do not rely on PostgreSQL are launched in parallel. Included in this batch are or two short lived containers, `ptfe_migrations` and `ptfe_registry_migrations`, which exist only to apply any necessary updates to the database schema.<br />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Terraform launches the remaining services that do not rely on PostgreSQL in parallel. These include two short-lived containers, `ptfe_migrations` and `ptfe_registry_migrations`, that exist only to apply any necessary updates to the database schema.<br />
```

2. The main **web** and **background** services start up:
<br />2a. Once `ptfe_migrations` has finished, `ptfe_atlas` and `ptfe_sidekiq` are started in parallel.
<br />2b. Once `ptfe_registry_migrations` has finished, `ptfe_registry_api` and `ptfe_registry_worker` are started in parallel.

> Finally, startup is complete and the application is ready to go at your configured hostname.

Reviewer 2: I believe we should remove this section entirely as this is subject to change and actually changing as we speak.

Author: What is it changing to and when will the release happen? I'll comment `Wait for Dependencies`.

### Module Ingress

> The process of importing Terraform modules into the private module registry starts with either a click in the UI or a `POST` to the API. The request is handled the same way in both cases:

Reviewer: Question (newbie here!) this "the private module registry," indicating that there's a universal private module registry. Is that the case, or is this "your private module registry."

Author: PMR is organization-centric.

![tfe-int-module-ingress](assets/tfe-int-module-ingress.png)

1. `ptfe_atlas` receives request from `ptfe_nginx`, pushes a job to Redis for `ptfe_sidekiq`, and then responds to the original request immediately.
1. `ptfe_sidekiq` asynchronously pulls the job and passes the details to `ptfe_slug_ingress`.
1. `ptfe_slug_ingress` downloads your Git repository and `POST`s it to `ptfe_archivist`.
1. `ptfe_archivist` persists the repository in blob storage and `POST`s the Object ID to `ptfe_atlas`.

> At this point, each tagged version of your repository has been persisted in the application. The process to make the modules available in your private module registry begins next:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point, each tagged version of your repository has been persisted in the application. The process to make the modules available in your private module registry begins:
```

![tfe-int-module-availability](assets/tfe-int-module-availability.png)

1. `ptfe_atlas` sends the Object ID from `ptfe_archivist` to the `ptfe_registry_api`.
1. `ptfe_registry_api` pulls the module from `ptfe_archivist`, saves the metadata in PostgreSQL, and passes the details to the `ptfe_registry_worker`.
1. `ptfe_registry_worker` extracts the individual modules from your repository, updates the Private Registry tables in PostgreSQL, and `POST`s the results to `ptfe_atlas`.

Finally, `ptfe_atlas` receives the callback and sets the module’s state to *ingressed* in PostgreSQL. The update is now live in the UI.

### Webhook Receipt

> Communications between Terraform Enterprise and a connected VCS server happen via HTTP webhooks.  The latest state of the connected Git repository is downloaded using the process below, and then followup Terraform commands are applied by the state machine.

Reviewer: Just changing to active voice because it's easier to read - but please reject if this changes the meaning too much!

```suggestion
Communications between Terraform Enterprise and a connected VCS server happen via HTTP webhooks. Terraform downloads the latest state of the connected Git repository using the process below, and then the state machine applies the followup Terraform commands.
```

Finally, `ptfe_atlas` receives results of the plan or apply and begins next actions if any apply.

### Sentinel Run

A state machine inside `ptfe_atlas` is responsible for scheduling Sentinel runs when necessary.

![tfe-int-sentinel-run](assets/tfe-int-sentinel-run.png)

1. `ptfe_atlas` detects a state change and queues a background job for `ptfe_sidekiq` in Redis.
1. `ptfe_sidekiq` asynchronously pulls the job and schedules a Sentinel run in `ptfe_nomad`.
1. `ptfe_nomad` runs the Sentinel job and `POST`s the result back to `ptfe_atlas`.

Although the result of the Sentinel run is known at this point, it is not persisted until the callback is processed:

![tfe-int-sentinel-persistence](assets/tfe-int-sentinel-persistence.png)

1. `ptfe_atlas` receives the callback request from `ptfe_nginx` and streams the response to `ptfe_archivist`.
2. `ptfe_archivist` saves the Sentinel results to blob storage and returns an Object ID to `ptfe_atlas`.

Finally, `ptfe_atlas` updates the metadata in PostgreSQL after it receives confirmation that the details of the run have been persisted.

## Long-Running Container List

> The following table lists every container Terraform Enterprise runs via the Replicated Native Scheduler.  The list is presented by layer as per the above document sections and includes those long-running processes only, not ephemeral containers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table lists every container Terraform Enterprise runs via the Replicated Native Scheduler, following the layers outlined above. It does not include ephemeral containers, only those from long-running processes.
```

| Layer | Container Name | Process Name | Container Function |
| - | - | - | - |
| Web Services | `ptfe_atlas` | Atlas | Ruby on Rails application that powers the UI and API. |
|  | `ptfe_registry_api` | Private Registry API | Go service that powers the private module registry. |
|  | `ptfe_nginx` | Nginx | NginX is used as a router in Terraform Enterprise. |
| Background Services | `ptfe_sidekiq` | Sidekiq | Ruby workers that run asynchronous jobs enqueued by `ptfe_atlas`. |
|  | `ptfe_state_parser` | Terraform State Parser | Go service that parses Terraform State Files. |

> |  | `ptfe_build_manager` | Terraform Build Manager | Go service that coordinates Terraform runs, plan and applies. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|  | `ptfe_build_manager` | Terraform Build Manager | Go service that coordinates Terraform runs, plans, and applies. |
```

> |  | `ptfe_registry_worker` | Private Module Registry Worker | Go service that parses Git repositories for Private Registry. |

Reviewer: I think Terraform Registry is a proper noun, but this isn't. Please correct if if I'm wrong!

```suggestion
|  | `ptfe_registry_worker` | Private Module Registry Worker | Go service that parses Git repositories for private registry. |
```

# Terraform Enterprise Architecture

> Terraform Enterprise (TFE) is powered by the same set of services behind HashiCorp’s public SaaS application Terraform Cloud.  The sections below present the functional layers of the architecture, how they interact and details pertaining to the corresponding docker containers involved.  References to Docker containers in this document are those you will see when running a `docker ps` on a TFE application server while the application is up.

Reviewer 4: We generally avoid abbreviating the product name anywhere on our website where we can avoid it. TFE should be spelled out as Terraform Enterprise throughout out website documentation.

> Terraform Enterprise (TFE) is powered by the same set of services behind HashiCorp’s public SaaS application Terraform Cloud.  The sections below present the functional layers of the architecture, how they interact and details pertaining to the corresponding docker containers involved.  References to Docker containers in this document are those you will see when running a `docker ps` on a TFE application server while the application is up.

Reviewer 3: Capitalization fix:
```suggestion
Terraform Enterprise (TFE) is powered by the same set of services behind HashiCorp’s public SaaS application Terraform Cloud. The sections below present the functional layers of the architecture, how they interact and details pertaining to the corresponding Docker containers involved. References to Docker containers in this document are those you will see when running a `docker ps` on a TFE application server while the application is up.
```

~> **Advanced:** The content in this document is not required to operate TFE but is provided to help advanced users understand the product in more depth.

> ~> **Note:** References to `ptfe` below is a historical reference. See [here](https://www.terraform.io/docs/enterprise/index.html#note-about-product-names) for more details.

Reviewer 3: Wording suggestion:
```suggestion
~> **Note:** Several services described below include the legacy string `ptfe` as part of their names. See [here](https://www.terraform.io/docs/enterprise/index.html#note-about-product-names) for more details.
```

![tfe-int-app-layer](assets/tfe-int-app-layer.png)

A web service receives a request and enqueues a background job to perform the task via the Coordination Layer (see below).  The web service then responds immediately to the original request instead of waiting for the job to be finished.

A background service later claims the job from the Coordination Layer and performs the resource- or time-intensive task in the background without blocking the web service.

Finally, the original web service is notified when then task is complete via an internal webhook.

### Web Services

These services answer requests from the UI and API as well as incoming webhooks from a connected VCS.

### Background Services

This is the largest part of the Application Layer and includes multi-purpose Sidekiq workers, Go services that provide key functionality of TFE, and a dynamic fleet of isolated execution environments that perform Terraform runs.

## Coordination Layer

The Coordination Layer is responsible for queuing asynchronous jobs and distributing them to background services running in the Application Layer.

![tfe-int-coordination-layer](assets/tfe-int-coordination-layer.png)

> ~> **Note:** While these components are critical to the overall operation of TFE, operators rarely (if ever) need to look at them directly.

Author: Content updated

## Storage Layer

> All application data is stored using PostgreSQL and blob storage. Unless you have configured TFE to use External Services, local instances of these services will be started for you.

Author: Content updated

1. `ptfe_sidekiq` asynchronously pulls the job and passes the details to `ptfe_slug_ingress`.
1. `ptfe_slug_ingress` downloads your Git repository and `POST`s it to `ptfe_archivist`.
1. `ptfe_archivist` persists the repository in blob storage and `POST`s the Object ID to `ptfe_atlas`.

At this point, each tagged version of your repository has been persisted in the application. The process to make the modules available in your private module registry begins next:

![tfe-int-module-availability](assets/tfe-int-module-availability.png)

1. `ptfe_atlas` sends the Object ID from `ptfe_archivist` to the `ptfe_registry_api`.
1. `ptfe_registry_api` pulls the module from `ptfe_archivist`, saves the metadata in PostgreSQL, and passes the details to the `ptfe_registry_worker`.
1. `ptfe_registry_worker` extracts the individual modules from your repository, updates the Private Registry tables in PostgreSQL, and `POST`s the results to `ptfe_atlas`.

Finally, `ptfe_atlas` receives the callback and sets the module’s state to *ingressed* in PostgreSQL. The update is now live in the UI.

### Webhook Receipt

> Communications between PTFE and a connected VCS server happen via HTTP webhooks.  The latest state of the connected Git repository is downloaded using the process below, and then followup Terraform commands are applied by the state machine.

Reviewer 4: PTFE - the P is silent..

1. `ptfe_slug_ingress` spawns a separate `git clone` of your Git repository and `POST`s it to `ptfe_archivist`.
1. `ptfe_archivist` persists the repository in blob storage and `POST`s the Object ID to `ptfe_atlas`.

### Terraform Plan and Apply

A state machine inside `ptfe_atlas` watches your workspaces at all times. The process is started when a plan or apply begins. The diagram below applies to both plan and apply stages.

![tfe-int-tf-plan-apply](assets/tfe-int-tf-plan-apply.png)

1. `ptfe_atlas` detects a state change and enqueues a background job for `ptfe_sidekiq` in Redis.
2. `ptfe_sidekiq` asynchronously pulls the job and passes the details to `ptfe_build_manager`.
3. `ptfe_build_manager` enqueues a `ptfe_build_worker` job in RabbitMQ.
4. `ptfe_build_worker` spins up a temporary environment, runs a Terraform plan or apply, and passes the results to `ptfe_archivist`.
5. `ptfe_archivist` persists the plan or apply results and returns a URL to `ptfe_build_worker`.
6. `ptfe_build_worker` passes the plan or apply results back to `ptfe_build_manager`.
7. `ptfe_build_manager` `POST`s the results to an internal webhook.

> 8. `ptfe_nginx` receives the request and forwards the callback to `ptfe_atlas`.

Author: I got this content from the original gdoc and am effectively just reformatting it for publication. I redrew the diagrams for the same reason but they come exactly from that doc - step 8 cited corresponds to a point in the image above it so if amendments are required to the other diagrams correspondingly, could you tell me exactly where to make the changes please?

Finally, `ptfe_atlas` receives results of the plan or apply and begins next actions if any apply.

### Sentinel Run

A state machine inside `ptfe_atlas` is responsible for scheduling Sentinel runs when necessary.

![tfe-int-sentinel-run](assets/tfe-int-sentinel-run.png)

1. `ptfe_atlas` detects a state change and queues a background job for `ptfe_sidekiq` in Redis.
1. `ptfe_sidekiq` asynchronously pulls the job and schedules a Sentinel run in `ptfe_nomad`.
1. `ptfe_nomad` runs the Sentinel job and `POST`s the result back to `ptfe_atlas`.

Although the result of the Sentinel run is known at this point, it is not persisted until the callback is processed:

![tfe-int-sentinel-persistence](assets/tfe-int-sentinel-persistence.png)

1. `ptfe_atlas` receives the callback request from `ptfe_nginx` and streams the response to `ptfe_archivist`.
2. `ptfe_archivist` saves the Sentinel results to blob storage and returns an Object ID to `ptfe_atlas`.

Finally, `ptfe_atlas` updates the metadata in PostgreSQL after it receives confirmation that the details of the run have been persisted.

## Full Container List

> The following table lists every container Terraform Enterprise runs via the Replicated Native Scheduler.  The list is presented by layer as per the above document sections.

Reviewer 4: so, this is all the long-running service containers, but not every container. there are a variety of ephemeral containers that run on startup and for batch jobs that will show up with random names.

Author: Is it the view of engineering that these non-randomly-named but ephemeral containers should be included in this internal doc?

|  | `replicated-statsd` | Replicated StatsD | StatsD is a network daemon that listens for statistics and aggregates them for consumption. This is used to collect details for TFE support bundles. |
|  | `retraced-api` | RetraceD API | API provider for the audit log component of Replicated and communicates internally with the audit log’s Postgres and NSQ services. |
|  | `retraced-cron` | RetraceD Cron | Used to provide time-based audit message queue processing. |
|  | `retraced-nsqd` | RetraceD NSQD | This is the queue for the Replicated audit log and is internal to Replicated. |
|  | `retraced-processor` | RetraceD Processor | Processing facility for the audit log component of Replicated and communicates internally with the audit log’s Postgres and NSQ services |
|  | `retraced-postgres` | RetraceD PostgreSQL | This is the database for the Replicated audit log and is internal to Replicated. |
|  | `statsd-graphite` | StatsD | This image is used for a metrics service that runs when the application is running. |

> |  | `support-bundle` | Support Bundle Generator | This image is run to collect system information when the customer creates a support bundle. Not used in Active/Active - use [the CLI](https://www.terraform.io/docs/enterprise/admin/active-active.html#support-bundle) instead. |

Reviewer 4: support-bundle runs in a/a when called, same as standalone.
